Book about in this lesson we're going to explore the dorm in more detail and the dorm is the starting
place and it's actually the window to create interactive and dynamic content because this is what connects
your job script to your age to a male page and you can also apply styling.
You can create events and a whole lot more you can manipulate elements.
So there's a lot of things that you can do with it that don't.
So you had an opportunity to open that up with the browser and take a quick look through it.
So what we saw earlier when we were looking at our our objects we saw that we can actually get additional
information.
So let's say for instance we want to pull back last modified.
We can just as easily go into our
console and I can type notes.
So if I want to pull back when this document was Last-Modified we access the document object and we
can specify Last-Modified and we can return by the result.
So it's as easy as that to pull that information in.
And if you were trying to use that within your code if you want to know when the document was Last-Modified
you can really easily pull that through and put it in make use of it within your code.
So say for instance you want to get the title of the document so you could do something like document
and title.
So the title object is document title and we can see that it actually pulls back the title information
that's contained within my web site.
So if I change this information and if I save it and of course I do need to go out and refresh it and
if I do document title what that's going to do is that's going to output the title and title of my HMO
title tag.
So you see how useful this can be.
And believe me it can do a whole lot more.
So this is just the beginning that we can pull some information that's contained within the document
and output it and make use of it within our script.
So what I want you to do now is open up the console and go ahead and get the doctype of your web page
and this will work on any Web sites are going to go over to Chrome dev tools and I'm going to open it
up there.
So go ahead.
Pause the video.
Try it for yourself.
Any web page and try to grab that that information that Tagle information and pull back in and actually
use it as a variable so set up a variable in javascript.
Pulling the title information and then store that title information in that newly created variable so
you can create that variable call it table and set that up and I'll show you how to do that coming up.
So we had the opportunity to try this out for yourself so we know how to set up a variable time so we
do the our title and now we need to e-mail it to the actual title of the information that's contained
within the title.
And we saw earlier that when we type in a document that actually pulls back the document object.
And now we need to specify what part of the document object we want to hold him and we want to specify
and we want to grab a title.
So place in a variable called Title and there we go so we can pull back the title.
The other challenge was to put the document type.
So every web page has a document type so we can also put that we have even created a variable if we
want to the same way that we just did title.
So in order to pull back the document the document type this information Milkins contained within the
document object and you can actually see quite a bit of the information that's contained within your
just within Chromes dev tools.
We've got a whole dropdown within the console that will give us all of the information.
So for a document doctype It's as simple as that we can pull back and we can get return back the document
type of the specific page that we're accessing right now and all of this information.
This is built every time a page is rendered out in the browser because it's the browser that is doing
all of this work and is recreating the whole H to content directly within the document and building
up this document object.
And I did say that we can also use the document object and we can interact with some of the content
that's available on our Web page.
So I would be showing you how to do that in the upcoming lesson.
In the meantime between lessons.
Open up your browser open up console and check out all of the different all of the different pieces
of information that's available with the document object and you can also put it within this type of
format as well.
So you have to console log.
You can simply type a document.
And what this will do is this will return back that entire h to mail code.
It was actually the source code gets returned back there.
And if you to see it with a directory structure don't forget to place it within the document directory.
So go ahead try it for yourself.
Take a look through and you don't have to memorize everything that's available in the dorm.
So nobody actually does but there's some key there's some key values here that you're going to be built
to make you so you can see that there's ones like cookies and so on.
So a lot of these are important and also the big important part of it is the amount of age to meld elements
that are available here.
And I'm going to show you how to access these elements coming up.
So take a look.
And next lesson I have to create that interaction between the elements and your javascript.